feat: customizable `.env` directory path (#9631)
codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4: user_guide_src/source/general/managing_apps.rst

.. literalinclude:: managing_apps/004.php

Only when you change the Application Directory, see :ref:`renaming-app-directory` and modify the paths in the **index.php** and **spark**.

Changing the Location of the .env File
======================================

If necessary, you can change the location of the ``.env`` file by adjusting the ``$envDirectory``
property in ``app/Config/Paths.php``.

By default, the framework loads environment settings from a ``.env`` file located one level above
the ``app/`` directory (in the ``ROOTPATH``). This is a safe location when your domain is correctly
pointed to the ``public/`` directory, as recommended.

In practice, however, some applications are served from a subdirectory (e.g., ``http://example.com/myapp``)
rather than from the main domain. In such cases, placing the ``.env`` file within the ``ROOTPATH`` may expose

> sensitive configuration if ``.htaccess`` or other protections are misconfigured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sensitive configuration data iif ``.htaccess`` or other protections are misconfigured.
```

> To avoid this risk in such setups, it is recommended to ensure the ``.env`` file is located outside any
> web-accessible directories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid this risk in such setups, it is recommended that you ensure the ``.env`` file is located outside any web-accessible directories.
```
